#summary This Page describes the major changes from Version 1.9.0 to 1.9.1
= Introduction =
bugfix release for 'parse_query'-Feature
  * changes in LuceneRequestProcessor caused an ClassNotFoundException in AbstractHTTPClientRequestProcessor (during deserialization of search result)

= Important Changes = 
 * DidyoumeanIndexExtension:
  * added the didyoumean index extension to provide clear separation between indexing jobs and search task concerning the didyoumean functionality of the contentconnector-lucene
  * the extensions provides the reIndex job - it is used to reIndex the the didyoumean index 
  * the job can be configured to be started always after a main index job is finished or it can be controlled via the indexer servlet 

  further changes: see Bugfixes 


= Configuration changes = 
  * To return the parsedQuery with LuceneRequestProcessor
{{{
rp.1.showparsedquery = true
}}}

  * To configure the new DidyoumeanIndexExtension following additional parameters need to be added to the indexer.properties file:
{{{
# the class name of the DidyoumeanIndexExtension
index.<INDEX_NAME>.extensions.DIDYOUMEAN.class=com.gentics.cr.lucene.didyoumean.DidyoumeanIndexExtension
# location of the dym index
index.<INDEX_NAME>.extensions.DIDYOUMEAN.didyoumeanlocation.indexLocationClass=com.gentics.cr.lucene.indexer.index.LuceneSingleIndexLocation
index.<INDEX_NAME>.extensions.DIDYOUMEAN.didyoumeanlocation.indexLocations.0.path=${com.gentics.portalnode.confpath}/index/didyoumean
index.<INDEX_NAME>.extensions.DIDYOUMEAN.didyoumeanlocation.reopencheck=true

# location of the source index. Optional - if not provided the main LuceneIndexLocation is used by default 
index.<INDEX_NAME>.extensions.DIDYOUMEAN.srcindexlocation.indexLocationClass=com.gentics.cr.lucene.indexer.index.LuceneSingleIndexLocation
index.<INDEX_NAME>.extensions.DIDYOUMEAN.srcindexlocation.indexLocations.0.path=${com.gentics.portalnode.confpath}/index/index
index.<INDEX_NAME>.extensions.DIDYOUMEAN.srcindexlocation.analyzerconfig=${com.gentics.portalnode.confpath}/rest/analyzer.properties
index.<INDEX_NAME>.extensions.DIDYOUMEAN.srcindexlocation.reopencheck=true

# Fields, that will be used to find the suggestions. Default: "All"
index.<INDEX_NAME>.extensions.DIDYOUMEAN.didyoumeanfields=content,binarycontent,name,text,titel
# Sets the the worddistancescore that has to be reached
index.<INDEX_NAME>.extensions.DIDYOUMEAN.didyoumeanmindistancescore=0.75
# Sets the minimal frequecy the suggested term must have
index.<INDEX_NAME>.extensions.DIDYOUMEAN.didyoumeanmindocfreq=5

# if set to true the reindex-job is started everytime a main index job is finished (default false)
index.<INDEX_NAME>.extensions.DIDYOUMEAN.reindexOnCRIndexFinished=true
}}}
  * Following changes need to be applied to the search.properties to activate the use of the DidyoumeanIndexExtension
{{{
# set to true if you want to use the new IndexExtension (default: false)
rp.1.didyoumeanUseIndexExtension=true

 ...

# you don't need to configure the source IndexLocation (rp.1.srcindexlocation) 
# the configuration for the didyoumean-location (rp.1.didyoumeanlocation) remains unchanged.

 ...

# the values of the following properties need to be the same as the values of their corresponding 
# properties in the indexer.porperties to provide correct suggestions
rp.1.didyoumeanfields=content,binarycontent,name,text,titel
rp.1.didyoumeanmindistancescore=0.75
rp.1.didyoumeanmindocfreq=5
}}}
= Bugfixes = 
  * the LuceneRequestProcessor only returns parsed_query if explicit 
configured - if no configuration is done version 1.9.1 has same behavior as 1.8.0 in this case