#summary List of user features


= General Functionality =
 * retrieve objects and attributes.
 * get contents (html, css, binaries).
 * get navigation structures.
 * search.
 * caching.

= REST API =
 * get content in cc-xml, php serialized array, json, java xml, java binary
 * retrieve navigation structure (tree)
 * search

== methods ==

=== configuration ===
applicationsrule: rule
rule to filter queries and loading in CR based servlet.

=== load specific objects and attributes ===
requires a REST-Servlet, configured for CR.

parameter: contentid
returns xml without attributes

parameter: attributes=name
returns cc-xml with given attributes

parameter: type=php|xml|javaxml|javabin|json
javaxml: returns vector of CRResolvableBeans, requires client lib.
javabin: see javaxml
json: structure see cc-xml


=== load contents ===
requires CRServlet, configured for CR.

configuration: urltemplate
a velocity template to replace plink (url placeholder)

configuration: velocity
content can be rendered in velocity after fetching

parameter: contentid
returns content (for pages), binary (for files). optional.

paramter: filter
returns objects filtered by given rule.

parameter: sort=key:order
sort by attribute "key", order "asc" or "desc"

pathinfo:
pathinfo will be used to load contents by path. optional.



=== search in cr ===
requires a REST-Servlet, configured for CR.

parameter: filter=rule
returns cc-xml without attributes

parameter: count, start
for paging

parameter: sort
see above


=== search via lucene ===
requires a REST-Servlet, configured for Lucene.

paramter: filter=lucene rule
returns cc-xml without attributes

parameter: count, start
see above


=== navigation structure ===
requires Nav-Servlet, configure for CR.

parameter: filter
see above

parameter: childrule
will be appended to filter to determine children

returns:
hierarchical structure of the objects instead of list.


= Java API =
present content and navigation for servlets or portlets
retrieve objects and attributes
search
requires client library.

== methods ==
See above REST-API

NavObject:
parameters: conf, rootobject, vtltemplate, contextobjects
method: render


== configuration ==
requestprocessormerger:
enrich lucene search result with attributes from a CR.



= JSR-286 Portlets =
including jboss, liferay and gentics deployment descriptor.
contentportlet, navigationportlet.

== contentportlet ==
parameters: contentid, p.maxwidth, p.maxheight



= Indexer =
servlet to (start, stop) manage indexing.