#summary Setup a simple Example with jQuery
#labels Example,Featured

= You want to access via jQuery? =
Nothing is simpler than that. First you have to get all the dependencies you need:
  * The lates jQuery [http://docs.jquery.com/Downloading_jQuery release]
  * [http://www.gentics.com/Content.Node/products/portalnodesdk/gentics_portalnode_4_sdk_ueberblick.php Gentics Portal.Node SDK] (here short GPN SDK)
  * Gentics Portal.Node SDK Licence Key

== Preparing ==
First you have to set up Gentics Portal.Node SDK. Use the [http://www.gentics.com/help/topic/com.gentics.portalnode.sdk.doc/misc/doc/sdkguide/xhtml/sdkguide-installation.html InstallationGuide] if you need any help.

Then you can set up your WebProject.
Click File->New->Project in your GPN SDK and select "Dynamic Web Project". Go to the next page and enter a project name (We will use "CCR_Samples" here).

[http://www.flickr.com/photos/27618206@N05/4151381742/sizes/o/ http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2743/4151381742_e13d239bc5_t.jpg]  
[http://www.flickr.com/photos/27618206@N05/4150622755/sizes/o/ http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2612/4150622755_7f8783bfc2_t.jpg] 
[http://www.flickr.com/photos/27618206@N05/4151381794/sizes/o/ http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2572/4151381794_272a109ccf_t.jpg] 
[http://www.flickr.com/photos/27618206@N05/4151381848/sizes/o/ http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2801/4151381848_7f341e7142_t.jpg]


=== Fix two small Bugs ===
Unfortunately there is a small issue in the delivered sample project so you have to make a change in the project settings.

<wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4T3f-VwxBs"/>

And you have to add the following [http://code.google.com/p/gtxcontentconnector/source/browse/branches/stable/Servlets/WebContent/WEB-INF/lib/ezmorph-1.0.jar missing library] to the project 'GEP ContentRepository/WebContent/WEB-INF/lib'

== The Coding ==
Now we can get going:

Navigate to your newly created project and into the /WebContent/ folder. There we can create our HTML-File and name it index.html:

{{{
<html>
  <head>
    <title>My First Content Connector Example</title>
    <script src="jquery.js" type="text/javascript"></script> 
  </head>
  <body>
   <script type="text/javascript">
   var custom = {};
   custom.ccrlocation="/ContentRepository/ccr";
   $(function() {
   	$('#update-target a').click(function() {
   	  	$.getJSON(custom.ccrlocation+"?   filter=object.obj_type==10007&attributes=contentid&attributes=name&attributes=filename&sor   ting=contentid:asc&type=json&count=30",
   	  	function(data){
   	  	  $('<p></p>').html('status: '+data.status).appendTo('#update-target ol');
             $.each(data.Objects, function(i,item){
               
               $('<li></li>')
   		            .html(i+' '+item.attributes.name+' -    '+item.attributes.filename+' - '+item.attributes.contentid)
   		            .appendTo('#update-target ol');
               
             });
           }); //close $.ajax(
       }); //close click(
   }); //close $(
   </script>
   <div id='update-target'><a href="#">Click here to load data</a>
   <ol></ol>
   </div>
  </body>
</html>
}}}

After placing the jquery.js in the same folder, you are ready to test the page in your browser.

== The Testing == 
Activate the "J2EE-Perspective" with Window->Open Perspective->Other and select "Java EE". There you should see a Servers View where you have predefined Servers. We will use "Gentics Enterprise Portal". You can drag&drop your Dynamic Web Project from the Project Explorer to the Server.

<wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PSfDRFF9JvQ"/>

Now that the Project is deployed, you are ready to start the Server with a right click on the instance which brings up a context menu. Now select "Start" and on it goes.

If you have problems on a slow machine and your server is abborting the startup you may increase the allowed startup time of the server:

<wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mWAlZ0qMzN8"/>

After the server has started you should be able to access your example via [http://localhost:42881/Example].

== The Playing around ==
Edit this code and play around. Try to add additional attributes to the json-url (e.g. ...&attributes=content&attributes=updatetimestamp) and make the output more beautiful ;)

Visit [Usage] for more information.

== You want more? ==
View [http://code.google.com/p/gtxcontentconnector/source/browse/#svn%2Fbranches%2Farchive%2Ftrunk_20.04.2010%2FExamples%2FExamples More examples]